#  ❖ Study design (Stats)

For different purposes, we're to use different methods of study.

[Refer to Khan academy: Types of statistical studies](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/ap-statistics/gathering-data-ap/modal/v/types-of-statistical-studies)

Types of Statistical Studies:
- `Sample Study`: Sample out a portion of a **LARGE POPULATION** for studying on them.
- `Observational Study`: **WITHOUT** affecting them, **deeply observe** whole (small) population.
- `Experiments`: **RANDOMLY** divide samples to a `Control Group` and a `Treatment Group`, and compare 2 groups of which one is **AFFECTED** and another one **NOT AFFECTED**.



## 「Explanatory Variable」 & 「Response Variable」

The`response variable` is the focus of a question in a study or experiment. 
An `explanatory variable` is one that explains changes in that variable. It can be anything that might affect the response variable.


## 「Samples」 or 「Surveys」

- Problem 1: Qualitative and Quantitative data
- Problem 2: Representative samples
- Problem 3: Biased wording in survey questions
- Problem 4: Sampling methods
    - Systematic sampling: **100%** members of **ALL** groups chosen.
    - Stratified sampling: **Some** members from **ALL** groups chosen.
    - Random sampling: An adequate number of members chosen, each an equal chance of being in the sample.
    - Cluster sampling: **100%** members from **SOME** groups are chosen.


## 「Observational Studies」 or 「Experiments」

- `Observational study`: Measure or survey members of a sample **WITHOUT** trying to affect them.
- `Controlled experiment`: **Apply** some treatment to one of the groups, while the other group **does not** receive the treatment.



## Notes

- Randomized experiments are designed to **`suggest causation`**
- `Correlation` is WEAKER than `causation`
- To answer a question about a causal relationship, we need to perform an experiment with a `treatment group` and a `control group`.
- While `sample study` need a part of relative members, `Observational study` need ALL members.